_pages/about.md, before:

---
title: About Me
featured_image: /images/about/profile_pic.jpg
---

Hello, I'm Jason Koubi, a Robotics Software Engineer with a strong foundation in Mechanical Engineering. 

<img src="/images/about/profile_pic.jpg" alt="About Me" width="70%">


My journey into robotics software development began with my first project, "Cali," an autonomous mobile manipulator designed to carry out Fetch-and-Carry missions. Developing Cali from scratch not only deepened my understanding of robotics but also fueled my passion for creating intelligent systems that interact effortlessly with their surroundings.

As a ROS expert, I’m now looking to join a forward-thinking team dedicated to pioneering robotics software development. I’m seeking a role as a Robotics Software Engineer or ROS Developer, where I can contribute my skills and continue advancing in this thrilling field. If you're hiring, I’d love to connect!


---

My aim is to apply my expertise to drive innovative robotics projects while continuing to grow in this dynamic field. I am deeply passionate about tackling complex challenges and collaborating with professionals who share a similar vision.

Commit message:

updated about, contact and resume sections

_pages/about.md, after:

---
title: About Me
featured_image: /images/about/profile_pic.jpg
---



Hello, I’m Jason Koubi, a Robotics Software Engineer with a unique journey that bridges Physics, Mechanical Engineering, and Robotics Software Development.

<img src="/images/about/profile_pic.jpg" alt="About Me" width="50%">

My robotics journey began during my Master's in Mechanical Engineering after earning a Bachelor’s in Physics. I began with a focus on the mechanical aspects of robotics, but I quickly realized my true passion lies in empowering robots to think, learn, and interact intelligently with their environment.

This realization led me to dive deep into robotics software, starting with learning ROS (Robot Operating System). To solidify my skills, I enrolled in the first batch of the Robotics Developer Master Class by The Construct. This intensive program provided me with a comprehensive understanding of ROS and modern robotics software development, truly kick-starting my career.

Since then, I’ve worked on exciting projects like “Cali", an autonomous mobile manipulator designed to perform a Fetch-and-Carry mission in an indoor environment. Building Cali was a transformative experience, blending mechanical and software expertise to create an intelligent robotic system.

Now, as a ROS expert, I’m eager to join a forward-thinking team where I can apply my skills, tackle complex challenges, and contribute to groundbreaking robotics projects. If you’re hiring, I’d love to connect!
Let’s build the future of robotics together.
