_projects/2025-09-sucky.md, before:

---
title: '<em>Sucky — Autonomous Cleaning Robot</em>'
subtitle: 'Real-world ROS 2 deployment with SLAM and full coverage path planning in dust-heavy industrial environments.'
featured_image: 'images/projects/2025-09-sucky/cleaning_highres.gif'
date: 2025-09-30
---

## Overview

![sucky](/images/projects/2025-09-sucky/sucky_real.png)

***Sucky*** is an autonomous cleaning robot designed to navigate and operate in dust-heavy industrial environments.The project showcases the transition from simulation to a fully functioning real-world robot, leveraging ROS 2 for mapping, navigation, and full coverage path planning.


### Goals

- Deploy SLAM, navigation and coverage planning from simulation to the real robot.

- Handle **real-world complexities** such as dust interference, dynamic obstacles, and uneven flooring.

- Tune and validate **Full Coverage Path Planning** for reliable, systematic cleaning.

- Develop a robust platform for **future industrial-scale deployments**.


## Technical Approach

### Hardware

- **Drive Base:** Two powered drive wheels combined with two free-spinning mecanum caster wheels for stability. The robot uses a differential drive configuration to control movement, making it simple yet effective for navigating industrial environments like a sawmill.

- **LiDAR:** Sick TIM781 for accurate and reliable obstacle detection.

- **Depth Camera:** Intel RealSense D455 equivalent for 3D perception and SLAM.

- **Computer:** Jetson Orin Nano.

- **Microcontroller:** Arduino Integration for vacuum and cleaning peripherals.

### Software

- **Frameworks:** ROS 2 Humble, Foxglove.

- **Simulator:** Gazebo.

- **Nav2 Stack:** Provides navigation, planning, and autonomous movement.

- **RTAB-Map:** For 3D mapping and localization.

## Key Contributions

- **3D Mapping:** Implemented RTAB-Map for mapping and localization in the sawmill’s challenging layout.

- **Behavior Trees (BTs):** A custom behavior tree was developed to integrate SpiralSTC planning, based on the [Full Coverage Path Planner](https://github.com/nobleo/full_coverage_path_planner) repo from [nobleo](https://github.com/nobleo/full_coverage_path_planner).

- **Coverage Planning:** Implemented the [Full Coverage Path Planning (FCPP)](https://github.com/nobleo/full_coverage_path_planner) planner plugin in ROS 2 for systematic cleaning. Added a an interpolation_resolution parameter for better fine-tuning

- **Navigation:** Tuned Nav2 parameters for robust real-world navigation, with a major focus on the controller_server and MPPI (Model Predictive Path Integral) controller for robust path following and dynamic obstacle handling.

- **LiDAR and Camera Filtering:** Designed and implemented filtering strategies to handle **airborne dust**, a major challenge in the sawmill environment.


## Results

### 3D SLAM with RTAB-Map

### Full Coverage Path Planning

### Cleaning Demo


## Ideas for Improvement

Looking ahead, there are **three primary areas for improvement** that will significantly enhance the system’s performance, robustness, and usability:

- **Enhanced dynamic obstacle avoidance strategy**

- **Integrating Opennav Coverage into the real robot for finer control of coverage areas**

- **Adding higher-level error handling and notification logic**

Some other future enhancements worth exploring with lower priority include:

- **Hose detection pipeline**

- **Automated dumping process**

- **Automated charging**

- **Cleaning progress & robot status dashboard**

For a more detailed explanation of these improvements, please check [Improvements Report](https://github.com/jkoubs/sucky_real_ws/blob/main/Improvements.md).

## GitHub Repository

[Explore the Project on GitHub](https://github.com/jkoubs/sucky_real_ws)

If you are also interested in the simulation side of this project, you can find it [here](https://github.com/jkoubs/sucky_ws).

Commit message:

added mapping and fcpp gifs

_projects/2025-09-sucky.md, after:

---
title: '<em>Sucky — Autonomous Cleaning Robot</em>'
subtitle: 'Real-world ROS 2 deployment with SLAM and full coverage path planning in dust-heavy industrial environments.'
featured_image: 'images/projects/2025-09-sucky/cleaning_highres.gif'
date: 2025-09-30
---

## Overview

![sucky](/images/projects/2025-09-sucky/sucky_real.png)

***Sucky*** is an autonomous cleaning robot designed to navigate and operate in dust-heavy industrial environments.The project showcases the transition from simulation to a fully functioning real-world robot, leveraging ROS 2 for mapping, navigation, and full coverage path planning.


### Goals

- Deploy SLAM, navigation and coverage planning from simulation to the real robot.

- Handle **real-world complexities** such as dust interference, dynamic obstacles, and uneven flooring.

- Tune and validate **Full Coverage Path Planning** for reliable, systematic cleaning.

- Develop a robust platform for **future industrial-scale deployments**.


## Technical Approach

### Hardware

- **Drive Base:** Two powered drive wheels combined with two free-spinning mecanum caster wheels for stability. The robot uses a differential drive configuration to control movement, making it simple yet effective for navigating industrial environments like a sawmill.

- **LiDAR:** Sick TIM781 for accurate and reliable obstacle detection.

- **Depth Camera:** Intel RealSense D455 equivalent for 3D perception and SLAM.

- **Computer:** Jetson Orin Nano.

- **Microcontroller:** Arduino Integration for vacuum and cleaning peripherals.

### Software

- **Frameworks:** ROS 2 Humble, Foxglove.

- **Simulator:** Gazebo.

- **Nav2 Stack:** Provides navigation, planning, and autonomous movement.

- **RTAB-Map:** For 3D mapping and localization.

## Key Contributions

- **3D Mapping:** Implemented RTAB-Map for mapping and localization in the sawmill’s challenging layout.

- **Behavior Trees (BTs):** A custom behavior tree was developed to integrate SpiralSTC planning, based on the [Full Coverage Path Planner](https://github.com/nobleo/full_coverage_path_planner) repo from [nobleo](https://github.com/nobleo/full_coverage_path_planner).

- **Coverage Planning:** Implemented the [Full Coverage Path Planning (FCPP)](https://github.com/nobleo/full_coverage_path_planner) planner plugin in ROS 2 for systematic cleaning. Added a an interpolation_resolution parameter for better fine-tuning

- **Navigation:** Tuned Nav2 parameters for robust real-world navigation, with a major focus on the controller_server and MPPI (Model Predictive Path Integral) controller for robust path following and dynamic obstacle handling.

- **LiDAR and Camera Filtering:** Designed and implemented filtering strategies to handle **airborne dust**, a major challenge in the sawmill environment.


## Results

### 3D SLAM with RTAB-Map

![mapping](/images/projects/2025-09-sucky/mapping.gif)

From this 3D map, we can extract the point cloud data:

![pcl](/images/projects/2025-09-sucky/pcl-fast-x4.gif)

This 3D map allows us to extract a 2D slice that will serve as the base for navigation:

![2dmap](/images/projects/2025-09-sucky/real-map.png)

### Full Coverage Path Planning

![fcpp](/images/projects/2025-09-sucky/nav-only.gif)

### Cleaning Demo

![cleaning](/images/projects/2025-09-sucky/cleaning_highres.gif)

## Ideas for Improvement

Looking ahead, there are **three primary areas for improvement** that will significantly enhance the system’s performance, robustness, and usability:

- **Enhanced dynamic obstacle avoidance strategy**

- **Integrating Opennav Coverage into the real robot for finer control of coverage areas**

- **Adding higher-level error handling and notification logic**

Some other future enhancements worth exploring with lower priority include:

- **Hose detection pipeline**

- **Automated dumping process**

- **Automated charging**

- **Cleaning progress & robot status dashboard**

For a more detailed explanation of these improvements, please check [Improvements Report](https://github.com/jkoubs/sucky_real_ws/blob/main/Improvements.md).

## GitHub Repository

[Explore the Project on GitHub](https://github.com/jkoubs/sucky_real_ws)

If you are also interested in the simulation side of this project, you can find it [here](https://github.com/jkoubs/sucky_ws).
